WinForms breaking changes for Preview 1 (#33798)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/compatibility/windows-forms/8.0/top-level-window-scaling.md

---
title: "Breaking change: Forms scale according to AutoScaleMode"
description: Learn about the breaking change in .NET 8 for Windows Forms where top-level windows in PerMonitorV2-mode apps scale according to AutoScaleMode.
ms.date: 01/31/2023
---
# Forms scale according to AutoScaleMode

In <xref:System.Windows.Forms.HighDpiMode.PerMonitorV2>-mode apps, Windows Forms has been using linear sizes (also known as DPI-scaled sizes) provided by Windows for top-level windows, regardless of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.AutoScaleMode>. This implementation was problematic when using the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.AutoScaleMode.Font?displayProperty=nameWithType> scaling mode, where <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Form> scaling should be non-linear. The child controls are scaled non-linearly and depend on the font that was assigned to the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Form> or child controls.

> This change enables `WM.GETDPISCALEDSIZE` message handling for top-level <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Form> objects. It utilizes [WM_GETDPISCALEDSIZE](/windows/win32/hidpi/wm-getdpiscaledsize) to let Windows know that the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Form> may need non-linear sizes depending on <xref:System.Windows.Forms.AutoScaleMode>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change enables `WM_GETDPISCALEDSIZE` message handling for top-level <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Form> objects. It utilizes [WM_GETDPISCALEDSIZE](/windows/win32/hidpi/wm-getdpiscaledsize) to let Windows know that the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Form> may need non-linear sizes depending on <xref:System.Windows.Forms.AutoScaleMode>.
```

## Version introduced

.NET 8 Preview 1

## Previous behavior

> Previously, in <xref:System.Windows.Forms.HighDpiMode.PerMonitorV2>-mode apps, top-level windows were scaled by Windows and ignored <xref:System.Windows.Forms.AutoScaleMode>. This implementation resulted in inconsistent scaling between <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Form> objects and their child controls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, in <xref:System.Windows.Forms.HighDpiMode.PerMonitorV2>-mode apps, top-level windows were scaled by Windows and disregarded <xref:System.Windows.Forms.AutoScaleMode> specified in the WinForms application. This led to uneven scaling between <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Form> objects and their child controls.
```

Reviewer: What do you mean by "uneven scaling"?

Reviewer 2: if you are asking that, then we may better keep `inconsistent` :) .   underlying truth is, before this implementation, child objects were scaled according to AutoscaleMode (Font or DPI) while top-level windows was always DPI scaled.

Reviewer: > if you are asking that, then we may better keep inconsistent

😃 

Yes, let's rather keep inconsistent!
